<h2> Hybrid publishing and its impact on society </h2>

* Yuan Mei 

Nowadays, thanks to the development of computer technology, creating electronic publishing formats like EPUB from Microsoft word document, is a breeze. This transformation marks a revolutionary new pace in the publishing world, namely, ‘Going hybrid’. From the definition of the Cambridge Dictionary, hybrid means something that is a mixture of two very different things. Hybrid publishing, as its name suggests, combines publishing formats by mixing traditional print publishing and e-book format, and also blurs the gap between professional press and self- publishing. A freelance writer, with the help of open source tools can easily generate his own content in a printed format and an e-book in parallel. In the process, he no longer needs to cooperate with traditional press, eliminating some complicated and expensive procedures, such as edit, layout and mass print. Instead, all he needs is some open source software, some computer programming knowledge and an e-book platform. Hybrid publishing, with its own natural advantages, such as low budget and efficiency, quickly became an extremely popular format of publishing. Publishers und potential hybrid publishers, like artists, writers, designers, free-publisher, are actively experimenting and exploring different publishing processes and formats. Computer scientists and programmers constantly develop various software tools, attempting to help people realize their publishing dreams. A variety of publishing platforms and e-book platforms are emerging in the market. Despite that, the development of e-books does not flourish as expected. For example, in Amazon’s best-selling list of the top 150 books, only 56 entered the Kindle (e-reader). The number of e-books is far less than paper prints, and in sales, it is far behind paper books also. Third, e-books are always associated with fast-food books – the kind of book people will not want to see again after downloading and quick reading. This divergency between the potential of hybrid publishing on the hand and its actual status on the other hand is worth investigating. In this context, this article aims to analyze hybrid publishing in detail, analyze it from its various dimensions, including its definition, characteristics, advantages and disadvantages, and its impact on society.

Hybrid publishing is a brand new, open publishing form, consisting of multiple combinations. It combines print and electronic editions. The highly structured digital document format is used to generate different formats of electronic publications in parallel to a printed book; it combines different outputs as going hybrid requires changing the way of work during the publishing process. It is no longer a linear process, from a Microsoft word to Adobe InDesign file, then to print. But it is a one-to-many file process, from XML to EPUB, print, web and audio; it combines publisher and author as the publication doesn’t necessarily require the involvement of an established (press) publisher, but may be done by the author himself. Therefore, in hybrid publishing self-publishing replaces to some extent press-led publishing; it combines distributions, from the sale of paper books by traditional bookstores, to providing online reading combined with Print on Demand, or sales of e-books online. The distribution platform is no longer limited to traditional channels like bookstores. Hybrid publishing currently takes place through eBook stores, online reading platforms, social reading platforms, Print-on-Demand and self-publishing services, pirate download platforms and artists' eBook projects etc.; it combines read-carriers and users can choose from a multitude of hardware e-reader devices and software e-reader applications to read the publication, which means reading happens using paper books, e-readers, computers, mobile phones, etc.; it combines content, in traditional publications text and image play a central role, but hybrid publication offers various materials such as video (documentary, animation, etc.), audio (interviews, lectures, etc.), hyperlinks or even 'interactive' media.
In conclusion, hybrid publishing is the way, self-publisher uses new workflows that allow to turn same basic content into multi-format publications. It means transforming a manuscript, with the help of open source tools like multiformat style libraries and source content management, into multiple publishable outputs, like websites, eBooks, paper books, audio books etc., then publishing them in various distribution platforms, such as eBook stores, online reading platforms, social reading platforms, print-on-demand and self-publishing services etc. Users can read it from print book to a multitude of hardware e-reader devices and software e-reader applications.

Hybrid publishing is characterized by free form and openness, lending it a wider variety compared to traditional publishing. First, low budget, on the one hand, because e-books do not generate costs, such as printing, transportation, storage, which makes the e-book production price lower than the paper print, and on the other hand, because of the coordinated editing workflow, so that a file can be generated in a variety of publishing formats, resulting in a much more efficient work of e-books, which reduces the cost of production; second, intermediate multimedia, in traditional books contain text and a small number of pictures, and in the e-book format, all kinds of media have space to play, audio, video, animation, addressing all kinds of senses like vision, hearing, etc.; third, between concepts, chapters and books can be connected by hyperlinks, a knowledge domain can form a network of knowledge chains. The content is also easier to retrieve and organize, and it can improve reading efficiency; fourth, sustainable development, if you update a paper book, it will inevitably cost a lot of manpower and material resources. Only a few extremely popular books will have a limited version and new. And e-books because separation of content and form, the author may only need a small amount of work, like updating the content manage system or style sheet to allow the readers to download the new version.

In general, hybrid publishing makes publishing far easier than before because today, everyone can create electronic publications from Microsoft word documents. But according to Booknet, a non-profit organization that serves the Canadian book industry, e-books accounted for 16.9% of total book sales in 2016, a decline from 19% in 2015. Furthermore, according to the Pew Research Center, 65% of Americans reported reading a printed book in 2016, compared to only 28% who read an e-book. Since the first modern e-book was produced in the late 1990s, people have been talking about the advantages of e-books. It is thin, portable, standardized, low-cost, and has no inventory and shipping problems. So why are its market share and the usage rate still far below the printed book? First of all, there may be copyright issues: copyright is a very important factor in publishing because it guarantees the rights and interests of authors and publishers. In the paper book publishing market, an orderly and evidence-based copyright protection system has been formed, whereas in hybrid publishing an orderly copyright protection system has not been formed, and the interests of authors and publishers may be damaged because of illegal copy, resulting in many publishers not willing to provide e-books. In addition, a publisher needs to publish on multiple forms for a multitude of different reading devices and eBook platforms, the main formats of e-book are EPUB, MOBI, AZW, IBA and more, theses will increase the development costs and the investment in technical maintain, because electronic publication must be sustainable. Finally, the distribution channel is not mature yet and reputation and resources are not as strong as in traditional press. Various hybrid publishing platforms have appeared on the Internet and they are growing, no doubt about it. However, they lack professional content control and marketing skills, often resulting in unexpected losses. Even if they find high-quality content or talented authors, they will likely not be able to make their works shine in the market.

According to the latest report (2018) from ProQuest affiliate Bowker, the total number of self-published titles grew from 786,935 to 1,009,188, surpassing the million mark for the first time. As the numbers confirm, hybrid-publishing continues to grow each year. Despite the fact that hybrid publishing is accompanied by so many advantages and unresolved problems, its status in the publishing industry is becoming more and more prominent. What impact will it have on our society and culture, moreover, what opportunities and challenges will it bring to publishers and readers in the publishing industry?

Traditional publishers act like gatekeepers. Press agents invest their time and money in a book when they publish it. To make sure that they recoup their investment, the concentrate their efforts on a relatively small number of books with high quality. But hybrid publishing, theoretically allows everyone to have the freedom and opportunity to publish. Everyone can write their own opinions and feelings on a public platform, and actively or passively spread it to others, either people they know or strangers. This way, publishing loses quality control. This may explain why e-books are often associated with fast-food reading and inferior content. More seriously, we gradually lose the gatekeepers, in other words, the goalkeeper can't defend the huge information flow. The other side, some individuals or businesses can spread fake news and confuse people to achieve their political or economic goals. This can lead to content run wild. That means, people may not find valuable content in the flood of information or more seriously, be misleader by fake news and gossip. 

But from another perspective, e-books provide a huge arena for multi-media, especially interactive media. Shakespeare said, “There are a thousand Hamlets in a thousand people's eyes”. Perhaps in the near future, interactive media will show each reader the individual Hamlet in his eyes. Last year Netflix released its first interactive movie ‘Black Mirror: Bandersnatch’, giving viewers the ability to choose their own path through a story with series multiple-choice questions. In the same way, soon after, according to the reader's own choice to decide the development of the story, interactive novels are also likely to appear in the market. And now, in reality, e-books, thanks to better technology, can bring more interesting and diverse experiences to readers, because e-books can support multi-media, pictures, video, voice, animation and other forms, not only make reading more fun, but also greatly improve reading efficiency and cognitive efficiency, because our brains have stronger cognitive ability for pictures in compared with words. Finally, hybrid publishing will encourage people to express their ideas and opinions because publishing is easier than before, so that people from all corners of the world can interact and communicate, and the knowledge of the world will be linked and open and mobile like never before. Hybrid publishing may remove barriers of knowledge, and facilitate everyone to browse it. This may be a profound influence that hybrid publishing will have.

In general, hybrid publishing is a new possibility of publishing. It is worth trying and exploring. It not only provides more possibilities for authors and readers, but also affords more stage for content, especially in interactive from. On the other hand, hybrid publishing still lacks answers to some essential questions: How can the publishing service platform take over the advantages of the traditional publishing industry while abandoning its disadvantages, like illegal copy and complexity of technical developments? If, on the one hand, hybrid publishing can continue to expand its format and technology advantages, on the other hand, through the cooperation of individuals and related institutions to establish its copyright protection system, it will give publishers and potential publishers a wider publishing space, and it will be the future of publishing in digital age.
 







 ### Bibliography,
- Dworkin, Craig & Gilbert, Anette & Morris, Simon & Soto, Carlos & Thurston, Nick. (2013) Do or DIY- Zur Geschichte und Praxis im Selbstverlag, Köln: Salon-Verlag.

- M. Riphagen, M. Rasch, F. Cramer, (2015) From Print to Ebooks: A Hybrid Publishing Toolkit for the Arts

- Jane Friedman, The Key Book Publishing Paths: 2018 [online]
https://www.janefriedman.com/key-book-publishing-path/ 

- Independent Book Publishers (2016), Association IBPA Hybrid Publisher Criteria [online] https://www.ibpa-online.org/page/hybridpublisher

- Austin Macauley Publishers, what is hybrid publishing, [online] https://www.austinmacauley.com/blog/what-hybrid-publishing

- Brian A. Klems (2016), What is Hybrid Publishing? Here Are 4 Things All Writers Should Know [online] https://www.writersdigest.com/online-editor/what-is-hybrid-publishing-here-are-4-things-you-should-know

	
- Chris Harnick (2018), How black mirror bandersnatch works [online] https://www.eonline.com/news/999793/how-black-mirror-bandersnatch-netflix-s-interactive-movie-works


